---
layout: post
title: Alternative Medicine?
category: ideas
---
Complementary and alternative medicine is defined as a wide range of health care medicines and therapies, whose forms of treatment does not include medicines (National Health and Medical Research Council, 2015). In specific, alternative medicine specifically means the treatments which replace the conventional Western medicine, which is common used to cure or mitigate disease (Tabish, 2008). Compared to conventional Western medicine, alternative medicine has longer histories. Two forms of alternative medicine, traditional Chinese medicine and Ayurveda, which is a traditional Hindu system of medicine, can be traced back to 200 BC (Tabish, 2008; Jaiswal & Williams, 2016). They were the only forms of treatment available for those cultures, before the introduction of conventional Western medicine. In recent years, alternative medicine have been developed and widely used in the world. For example, some forms of alternative medicine or complementary medicine have been used by 70% to 80% of the general population in many developed countries (World Health Organisation, 2016). In Australia, the use of it has reached to 69% of patients (Emmerton, Fejzic, & Tett, 2012) and 82% of patients with multiple sclerosis (World Health Organisation, 2013). However, alternative medicine have not yet obtained the same official recognition and support as the conventional Western medicine. In this essay, it is argued that alternative medicine should be equally recognised and supported as conventional Western medicine, because they use different methodologies and philosophies to deal with medical problems, also they provide the patients an immense humanistic concern.

Alternative medicine provide medical treatments, based on different methodologies and approaches, to medical conditions and diseases which the conventional Western medicine cannot deal with. Compared with the conventional Western medicine, which mainly focus on symptom control; alternative medical therapies mostly emphasise seeking the causes of the disease and improving the patient’s self-healing ability to combat illness. The difference of them lies in the underlying approaches. The former is based on biomedicine with rigorous laboratory-based scientific methods (Brosnan, 2015); while the latter is normally developed based on healing practices via observation and characterisation with a long tradition of use (Chang & Gershwin, 2012). For instance, Naturopathy, as one of major alternative medicine, emphasises the “nature's inherent self-healing process” and employs holistic approaches to improve and restore “the body’s own innate healing systems” (Elder, 2013, p. 80). Hence, alternative medicine tend to be more effective in solving the medical problems than conventional Western. For instance, as the consequence of the wide use of antibiotics, antimicrobial resistance has been one of the toughest problems that conventional Western medicine researchers have to tackle. The more use of the antibiotics, the more serious antimicrobial resistance there will be. While, alternative medicine can decrease antibiotic use, by improving the self-healing capacities of an individual patient, with less adverse drug reactions (Kok, Jong, Gravendeel, Van Leeuwen, & Baars, 2015). For example, Echinacea can be used to replace the conventional antibiotic in the treatment of upper respiratory tract infections. Echinacea is one of the most widely used herbs or botanical supplements in North America, the patients tend to naturally recover their respiratory functions after gradual use of it. A review showed that 22 out of 34 studies using Echinacea had favourable outcomes dealing with upper respiratory tract infections (Kok, Jong, Gravendeel, Van Leeuwen, & Baars, 2015). However, according to Roberts et al. (2014), the problem of antimicrobial resistance can also be relieved by adopting individualised dosing strategies, such as adjusting antibiotic dose guided by therapeutic drug monitoring, based on software packages, in order to meet the needs of each patient and minimise the side effect of antibiotics. Nevertheless, it can be argued that the above attempt in conventional medicine can only limit antibiotic use, but cannot essentially solve the problem. Roca et al. (2014, p. 26) state that developing new therapeutic methods tends to “have reached a dead end” and “scientific bottlenecks”, and more efforts need to be taken to seek new antibacterial products. Therefore, alternative medicine have the potential to cope with the current medical diseases and problems such as antimicrobial resistance, which the conventional Western medicine cannot solve.

alternative medicine provide the patients an immense humanistic concern, on the basis of different philosophies and paradigms, for the sake of patients' health and spiritual well-being which the conventional Western medicine cannot offer. alternative medicine have the advantage of empowering the patients and building a closer relationship and more trust between the patients and alternative medicine practitioners. For instance, a comparative study of the patient-practitioner relationship indicates that patients feel more comfortable with the alternative medicine practitioners than conventional doctors, because they had longer consultations and shared more ideas with their alternative medicine practitioners (Emmerton, Fejzic & Tett, 2012). The underlying reason for the difference lies in different ontology philosophy. The former emphasises the disease, while the latter focuses on the person, who is regarded as the centre of the medical treatment (Emmerton, Fejzic & Tett, 2012), as well as a whole, both in body and mind (Change & Gershwin, 2012). For example, alternative medicine providers tend to spend more time with patients; offer more understandable interpretations; listen attentively to the patients (Eisenberg et al., 2001). However, some people may argue that conventional Western medicine can also provide the patients with individualised treatments (Roberts et al., 2014), and personal consultations. Nevertheless, individualised treatment in conventional effectiveness-oriented Western medicine is more focused on offering personalised drug dosage and specific treatment methods. By contrast, patient-oriented alternative medicine have more potential in building a personalised relationship between alternative medicine providers and their patients, getting the patients more involved in their own health care and well-being (Clark-Grill, 2010), especially spiritual well-being. This is because of its concept of patient-orientation, which is an important part of alternative medicine. Therefore, alternative medicine play an inevitable role addressing humanistic concern which the conventional Western medicine cannot bring to the patients.

To conclude, alternative medicine can complement conventional Western medicine in two significant ways. Firstly, it can help solve one of the main bottlenecks in Western medicine – the uses and abuses of antibiotics. Although conventional Western medicine researchers argue that they can solve the problem of antimicrobial resistance by adopting individualised dosing strategies, those strategies simply serve to reduce, rather than avoid the use of antibiotics. Secondly, alternative medicine can do a better job in providing spiritual therapies and improving the patients' spiritual well-being. Even though conventional Western medicine researchers defend that they are attempting to improve the patient-practitioner relationship or increase individualised service to patients, yet the underlying philosophy of conventional medicine is effect-oriented. They centre on treating diseases, while alternative medicine focus on treating the patients with diseases. Finally, patients should have the right and freedom to optimise their health care and well-being in a patient-centred medical system. They should also have the right to be informed of alternative medicine. Therefore, alternative medicine deserve the same recognition and support as conventional Western medicine.


References

Brosnan, C. (2015). “Quackery” in the academy? Professional knowledge, autonomy and the debate over complementary medicine degrees. Sociology, 49(6), 1047–1064.
Chang, C., & Gershwin, M. E. (2012). Integrative medicine in allergy and immunology. Clinical Reviews in Allergy & Immunology, 44(3), 208–228.
Clark-Grill, M. (2010). When listening to the people: Lessons from complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) for Bioethics. Journal of Bioethical Inquiry, 7(1), 71–81.

Eisenberg, D. M. (2001). Perceptions about complementary therapies relative to conventional therapies among adults who use Both: Results from a national survey. Annals of Internal Medicine, 135(5), 344.

Elder, C. R. (2013). Integrating Naturopathy: Can We Move Forward? The Permanente Journal, 17(4), 80–83.
Emmerton, L., Fejzic, J., & Tett, S. E. (2012). Consumers’ experiences and values in conventional and alternative medicine paradigms: A problem detection study (PDS). BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine, 12(1), 39. 

Jaiswal, Y. S., & Williams, L. L. (2017). A glimpse of Ayurveda – The forgotten history and principles of Indian traditional medicine. Journal of Traditional and Complementary Medicine, 7(1), 50–53. 

Kok, E. T., Jong, M. C., Gravendeel, B., Van Leeuwen, W. B., & Baars, E. W. (2015). Resistance to antibiotics and Antifungal medicinal products: Can complementary and alternative medicine help solve the problem in common infection diseases? The introduction of a Dutch research consortium. Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine, 2015, 1–6. 

Roca, I., Akova, M., Baquero, F., Carlet, J., Cavaleri, M., Coenen, S., … Vila, J. (2015). The global threat of antimicrobial resistance: science for intervention. New Microbes and New Infections, 6, 22–29.

Roberts, J. A., Abdul-Aziz, M. H., Lipman, J., Mouton, J. W., Vinks, A. A., Felton, T. W., … Kuti, J. L. (2014). Individualised antibiotic dosing for patients who are critically ill: Challenges and potential solutions. The Lancet Infectious Diseases, 14(6), 498–509. 

Tabish, S. A. (2008). Complementary and Alternative Healthcare: Is it Evidence-based? International Journal of Health Sciences, 2(1), V–IX.

National Health and Medical Research Council. (2015, March 4). Complementary medicines. Retrieved from https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/health-topics/complementary-medicines?
World Health Organization (2013). WHO traditional medicine strategy: 2014-2023. Hong Kong SAR, China: World Health Organization.

World Health Organization. (2016, February 18). Traditional medicine. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from http://www.wpro.who.int/china/mediacentre/factsheets/traditional_medicine/en/


